#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
% \VignetteIndexEntry{Introduction to SciViews}
%\VignettePackage{SciViews}

% provides caption formatting
\usepackage[labelfont=bf, tableposition=top]{caption}
\pdfimageresolution 96
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\begin_modules
svSweave
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8x
\fontencoding global
\font_roman palatino
\font_sans berasans
\font_typewriter beramono
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc true
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement tbh
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "SciViews - Why SciViews?"
\pdf_author "Philippe Grosjean"
\pdf_subject "Rationates for the SciViews scientific suite"
\pdf_keywords "Data analysis, Statistics, Reporting, Word processing, Slideshow"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks true
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\pdf_quoted_options "linkcolor=blue, urlcolor=blue, citecolor=blue, pagecolor=blue"
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\use_esint 0
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine natbib_authoryear
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\bullet 0 0 17 -1
\bullet 1 0 15 -1
\bullet 2 0 8 -1
\bullet 3 0 9 -1
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Why SciViews?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Ph.
 Grosjean <phgrosjean@sciviews.org>
\end_layout

\begin_layout Part
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
setkeys{Gin}{width=1.00
\backslash
textwidth}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout R-Opts
keep.source = TRUE, pdf = TRUE, eps = FALSE
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are several office suites, including (at least) a word processor,
 a spreadsheet, a slideshow presentation program, and tools to draw pictures
 and write mathematic equations.
 Microsoft Office and OpenOffice seem to fulfill the needs of most users.
 Son why should a 
\emph on
scientific
\emph default
 user need a different suite for his work? Well, we believe that those general
 purpose office suites are not well adapted for scientists.
 They need something radically different.
 The 
\begin_inset Flex SciViews
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\end_inset

 Scientific Suite aims to provide those tools to them.
 In short:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The spreadsheet paradigm is very popular to do calculations and graphs on
 tabulated data.
 However, there are many reasons why this paradigm is not efficient, error-prone
 and barely fits the needs for more serious data analysis, as most scientists
 need.
 We believe that 
\begin_inset Flex R
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\end_inset

, together with a carefully ciseled GUI is a much more adequate general
 purpose calculation and plotting engine.
 That is why the 
\begin_inset Flex SciViews
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\end_inset

 Scientific Suite is build around 
\begin_inset Flex R
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\end_inset

, and reserves so little space to a spreadsheet program.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The Word Processor and its WYSIWYG
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
WYSIWYG = What You See Is What You Get.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 paradigm makes a poor document preparation environment for scientific literatur
e like papers and books.
 Scientific literature is highly structured text and it does not fit well
 with the loose presentation of text elements in a WYSIWYG program.
 Also, Word Processors tend to be relatively poor and inefficient in mathematic
 formula typesetting and in bibliographic references formatting.
 LaTeX text processing system is much, much more adequate, but it requires
 to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

program
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 your text, and not all scientists are ready to take that way.
 A good alternative is the WYSIWIM paradigm of LyX.
 WYSIWIM stands for 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

What You See Is What You Mean
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 Here, you don't see the code hidden in you rich text formatted document,
 but you don't see the final result either.
 You see, instead, a very suggestive representation of the 
\emph on
structure
\emph default
 of your text (titles, paragraphs, equations, etc.).
 You can then concentrate on both the content and the structure, and delegate
 to the very capable LaTeX system that LyX uses to typeset its documents
 on the background to produce the final result.
 That WYSIWIM approach, together with the possibility to include results,
 tables and graphs from 
\begin_inset Flex R
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\end_inset

 computations directly in the LyX document using the 
\series bold
Sweave
\series default
 mechanism makes is a very suitable alternative to more traditional Word
 Processing programs for scientists.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The WYSIWYG slideshow programs, like PowerPoint, are not well suitable for
 scientists for the same reasons (mainly, a lack of correct formula typesetting
 and the inability to include code to produce calculation results, tables
 or graphs directly in the presentation).
 Here, we go back to LyX and Sweave again, but together with the excellent
 
\series bold
Beamer
\series default
 LaTeX package.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
...
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Processing data, analyzing data
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Scientist study facts, and they mostly convert these facts into numbers
 by mean of measurements in a given context (observation or experiment).
 They, then, manipulate these numbers in different ways...
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
